Welcome to OTHERobjects CMS Milestone 1

This is the first milestone release of the next generation of OTHERobjects. You can create folders and articles and see the site update in realtime.

Note that this workbench interface in only a prototype. The final version will look different but will contain similar functionality.

A quick guide to using the workbench

Click on a folder in the Navigator to view its contents.
In the Listing panel click to select a resource. Double-click to edit.
The Preview panel will always preview the currently selected resource.
Right click on a folder to rename or add a sub folder.
You can drag folders to move and reorder them.
Drag resources to different folders if you wish to move them.
To delete a folder or resource drag it to the trash.

Known issues

Items within a folder must have unique names. If you move or rename a folder that will result in a name clash then you will get an error. The tree will still update but the change will not be made.
A timing conflict can result in duplicate folders after being dropped. Workaound: wait for target folder to expand before dropping.
WYSYWYG editor is a preview only and has not been tested.
Firebug in Firefox will cause page times to be very slow whilst it loads the debugger. Workaround: disable Firebug for this site. A simle console can still be shown via F12.
Safari 3 Beta may not cache resources properly resulting in much longer page load times.

New and noteworthy

Workbench
Ajax based interfaced based on the Ext Javascript library.
Drag and drop interface.
Localisation support.
Strong form validation.

Data storage
Flexible object storage via Jackrabbit Content Repository.
Support for database access via Hibernate 3.2.

Security
Support for administrators and guests.
Passwords are stored securely and your login details can be remembered.
Usernames do not have to be email addresses although it is strongly recommended that they are and this will probably be enforced for most sites.

Architecture
Based on the industry standard Spring framework.

Infrastructure
Built with Maven to automate testing, packaging and deployment.
Comprehensive test coverage — over 60%

Coming in Milestone 2

Publishing and workflow support.
Multiple templates.
Live data types editing.
Image, file and rich media libraries.
Full localisation of workbench and support for multi-lingual sites.
And more....